# CNN_DOG_BREED_CLASSIFIER
A dog breed classification (image classification) application using Convolutional Neural Network.

This project implemented a dog breed classifier app/algorithm according to the image given. If the given image is a dog image, it will predict the dog breed (from total 133 breed); if the given image is a human image, it will predict the ensembling dog breed; if the image is neither a dog image nor a human image, it will return with an error message. Please scroll down to the last cell to see the fun result! The project includes the following major steps: 1) Create a CNN (Convolutional Neural Network) from scrach, then make prediction. 2) Apply transfer learning by using VGG16 pre-ttrained ImageNet model inside Keras to create a new model (remove last layer in the pre-trained model, and add one pooling layer, one output layer) to make prediction. 3) Apply transfer learning by using Xception pre-trained ImageNet model inside Keras to create a new model (remove last layer in the pre-trained model, and add one pooling layer, one output layer) to make prediction. The last model (Xception + transfer learning) achieves impressive test accuracy! Assigning breed to dogs from images is considered exceptionally challenging. Why? a) Even a human would have great difficulty in distinguishing between a Brittany and a Welsh Springer Spaniel. b) It is not difficult to find other dog breed pairs with minimal inter-class variation c) Likewise, recall that labradors come in yellow, chocolate, and black. The vision-based algorithm will have to conquer this high intra-class variation to determine how to classify all of these different shades as the same breed. The random guess will provide a correct answer roughly 1 in 133 times, which corresponds to an accuracy of less than 1%. The architecture we choosed is based on Xception model, which is one of the pre-trained ImageNet models. It can recognized 1000 different object categories. ImageNet has over 10 million images and contains a lot of dog images - so the Xception model has been trained with similar data (dog) as our data. The Xception model choosed here has good performance compared to other ImageNet pre-trained models, hence able to help us boosts the test accuracy!
